# GSoC : Week 2

This week I worked on two patch series:
- **[environment: remove sparse-checkout related global variables](https://lore.kernel.org/git/cover.1750157825.git.ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/)**:  As I mentioned in the previous patch, I sent a [v3](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20250611173433.74393-1-ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/) of this patch where I use getters and setters for the settings. But I got this [review](https://lore.kernel.org/git/xmqqbjquge0c.fsf@gitster.g/) from Junio where he suggested that since the variable is commonly used. We can instead load it only once in `prepare_repo_settings()` (in the previous version I called `prepare_repo_settings()` everytime in getter and setter function) and just access the member directly afterwards. So, I removed getter/setter functions. And while doing so, I realized the other sparse-checkout-related global variables(`core_sparse_checkout_cone` & `sparse_expect_files_outside_of_patterns`) could be cleaned up as well. So I made two new patches and sent to the mailing list.  This patch series also removes the definition `#define USE_THE_REPOSITORY_VARIABLE` from the files `builtin/backfill.c` and `sparse-index.c`.
- **[preload-index: remove dependency on global variables and 'the_repository'](https://lore.kernel.org/git/cover.1749557133.git.ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/)**: This patch eliminates the global variable `core_preload_index` and localize it in the function which calls it. Also, it removes the definition `#define USE_THE_REPOSITORY_VARIABLE` from the file `preload-index.c`. Junio said that he will merge this to next.

I hope to get some reviews on the patch I mentioned above and [this patch](https://lore.kernel.org/git/cover.1749343601.git.ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/) which I sent in the first week.

Next week, I plan to work on refactoring the `comment_line_str` global variable, as mentioned in my last blog post. I also hope to identify and clean up more files where `the_repository` can be removed.

As for my laptop, I think I'll have to manage with this small ThinkPad for a while now.

-Ayush:)