# GSoC: Week 5 
  
## Week 5

This week, I tried to remove the global variable `is_bare_repository_cfg`, but some of the tests kept failing on it. I gave it some time and tried fixing it but I couldn't solve the issue, then I thought I should first focus on the 3 patches I had. 

So as I sent a v2 of [builtin/prune: remove dependency on global variables and 'the_repository'](https://lore.kernel.org/git/cover.1749343601.git.ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/#r) patch in week 4, I got reviews from Junio and Patrick regarding the usage of repo when the repo is NULL and suggesed a test should be added. So Usman recommended that we should have the test in `t/t1517-outside-repo.sh`. So I decided to keep the test in the file usman mentoined. So I made the changes and sent the v3, where Patrck said the changes were good. 

For the [commit: avoid scanning trailing comments when 'core.commentChar' is "auto"](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20250626132233.414789-1-ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/#r) patch, I sent an [RFC Post](https://lore.kernel.org/git/CAE7as+YXwesgk2tna4kEC34EbQ=-eA+thQBqU3qnveDh9rbt8g@mail.gmail.com/) on the mailing list between the two options I had on how to proceed. I did not receive any replied on it this week though.

For the environment: remove sparse-checkout related global variables](https://lore.kernel.org/git/cover.1750157825.git.ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/) patch, I got a reminder from Junio saying that do we want to take this patch series forward or do we wanna postpone it. I had a draft message ready to say that I didn't add a lot of functions, I actually replaced a few and few of them were removed too. So I told him the following. He also reminded me that I still didn't respond to Phillip's commen on that path series. So I replied with the approach that is storing them inside repo settings and also apologized for the delayed response.

Apart from that, college is starting in a week, so I’ve been busy running errands and getting everything ready to head back.

I'm grateful to my mentor, Christian from GitLab, for his excellent guidance, and to the reviewers of my patches in the organization for their patience and valuable feedback.

- Ayush:)