# GSoC: Week 6
  
## Week 6

Hello folks!

So last week, I had sent an [RFC Post](https://lore.kernel.org/git/CAE7as+YXwesgk2tna4kEC34EbQ=-eA+thQBqU3qnveDh9rbt8g@mail.gmail.com/) to have a discussion on what my approach should be for the [commit: avoid scanning trailing comments when 'core.commentChar' is "auto"](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20250626132233.414789-1-ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/#r) patch. It had two approaches mentioned, one which was ignoring the `auto` keyword for comment character when there are conflict comments. Other one was just resetting the `comment_line_str` variable to "#" when commentChar is set or parsed as auto. The post sadly did not get any comments. But it's fine. Phillip had sent a patch about deprecating the `auto` keyword from Git, so then I discussed about it in my patch series with him and he was leaning strongly towards the latter approach.
So I made a patch which was now v4 and sent it to the mailing list. I did not realise it at first but the changes in the patch were the same as what Phillip once told me. This was pointed out to me by Junio, so I said that I do think that Phillip should actually get the primary credit for this patch and I gave credit to him in the commit message and I got his `signed-off`trailer as well. So, this was sent as [v5](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20250630182527.69167-1-ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/T/#e257634e3df1e722888e7b761e31fbe1df2e2e92f) and Phillip will rebase his patch series on top of mine and this will get merged to `next`!

I was also preparing a v6 of the [environment: move access to "core.sparsecheckout" into repo_settings](https://lore.kernel.org/git/20250603131806.14915-1-ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/#r) patch. I tried to minimize calls to `prepare_repo_settings()` as much as I can in this version. My mentor Christian from GitLab also helped me in identifying a call which I had forgotten to remove. I have yet to receive any reviews on this version.

Other than that, [builtin/prune: remove dependency on global variables and 'the_repository'](https://lore.kernel.org/git/cover.1749343601.git.ayu.chandekar@gmail.com/#r) got merged to master too!

Thanks again to the Git community for reviewing and helping me and also my mentor for guiding me.

That's it for this time. Will see you next week! 

-Ayush:)